some analysis of President Obama's
argument now Ali Hassan Abu NEMA is a
Palestinian American journalist and
co-founder of the Electronic Intifada an
independent website about the
israeli-palestinian conflict he joins us
from South Bend Indiana according to
president obama then those against these
talks are quote cynics you're a cynic he
actually said cynics and I think he also
said rejectionists or something like
that well I think anyone watching this
speech would have to be a cynic when you
consider that just yesterday the UN
human rights council found that there
was sufficient evidence to have
prosecutions of Israelis for the
killings of nine human rights activists
on the gods of Freedom Flotilla and here
was the President of the United States
at the United Nations telling people to
quote unquote not to tear down Israel he
said for example he said that
Palestinians killing Israelis is is not
resistance but I never heard him say
that Israel's mass killings of
Palestinian civilians is not
self-defense so we don't see anything
new here unfortunately and that I think
bodes very ill for the peace process
that he is so invested in right but what
is near according to President Obama in
his speech it's an argument we hear
quite often is everyone is aware that
this is the last chance for a two-state
solution we actually talk to a professor
in Tel Aviv who said he talked to
members of the cabinet who said mr.
Netanyahu had changed he wit realizes
his moment in history that's all
nonsense then well let's judge him by
not just what he says but what he does
Israel doesn't seem to show any interest
in the two-state solution if they were
interested in it they would not be
continuously building settlements in the
occupied West Bank they wouldn't be
demolishing homes as they did yesterday
in a tour in Jerusalem they wouldn't be
putting settlers into Silwan like the
settler who yesterday killed semi have
said hi and a father of five in occupied
East Jerusalem none of these actions are
consistent
with either a desire for peace or a
two-state solution it's an interesting
and sort of exercising phrasing that
we've heard both from President Obama
and members of the quartet in recent
days it goes like this we believe the
moratorium should be extended we also
believe the talks should press on and
does that put more pressure on the
Israelis or the Palestinians you think
what kind of talk is that really from
the president of a superpower he he was
at the United Nations and he didn't have
the guts to say that Israel settlement
construction is a gross violation of
numerous UN Security Council resolutions
and a violation of the Fourth Geneva
Convention and it's not a favor to
anybody for Israel to extend the
so-called moratorium it is a binding
obligation under international law not
only for Israel to stop building the
settlements but to tear down the
settlements it's built in violation of
international law and to tear down the
apartheid wall in the West Bank which
was ruled illegal in 2004 by the
International Court of Justice the
president there was said in the case of
Iran that international law works but
for some strange reason the President of
the United States doesn't have the guts
to mention international law when it
comes to Israel why is that Ali Abunimah
thank you very much thank you